# Syntax of Propositional Logic

## Goals
 
- Confirm that you can work with Lean files in VSCode
- make sense of our specification of a syntax of propositional logic
- do some original work in Lean by enhancing this specification

## To Do

- Read Chapters 1 and 2 in [Functional Programming in Lean](https://lean-lang.org/functional_programming_in_lean/)
- Read Chapters 1 and 2 in [Theorem Proving in Lean 4](https://leanprover.github.io/theorem_proving_in_lean4/)
- Learn to use Lean's InfoView panel. Use CMD/CTRL-SHIFT-ENTER as a shortcut to open the InfoView. Then click around through the file and see how this panel gives you feedback and additional information about the constructs at that point in the file. You can often get the same information without using the InfoView by hovering over bits of code.
- Extend our specification of the syntax of propositional logic with *nand* and *nor* connectives. Download syntax.lean (from Canvas assignment) and open it in VSCode; enhance the definition of our abstract and concrete syntax by adding two new operators, nand and nor; at the end of the file, define expressions using these and previously defined operators and using both abstract and concrete notations; and finally upload your modified file through Canvas. The concrete notations for nand and nor should be up and down arrows in infix position, respectively. You can get these characters in VSCode using \u or \d (followed by a space). The precedence of *nand* must be less than for *and* but more than for *or*, and the precedence of *nor* must be less than for *or* but more than for *imp*.

## Due Date

Before next class.
