# Operational Semantics for Propositional Logic

## Goals

This assignment has four goals. First, have you review in
your minds material that we discussed in class but that isn't
in the main notes.Second, get your infrasructure finalized
for the workflow we'll be using, where I push new material
to my repo and you pull it down into your laptop repo to see
and work with. Third, the main purpose of this assignment
is to have you now extend the semantics to account for your
addition of new operators to the syntax of propositional logic.
This will involve making coordinated edits across a few files.
Finally, read further on Lean 4.

## 1. Review and Some New Ideas

Beyond the material in the book, we also covred

- models of comptation behind imperative (Turing, von Neumann) and functional (Church) formal languages
- countability, with proofs of it for the rationals, and of the uncountability of the reals
- we used a *proof by contradiction*
- and with only a finite number of programs there's no way to have one that computes each on as its output

The main subject of today's class was semantics of propositional
logic. We did cover it, Before giving the details of this homework
assignment, we'll emphasize a few relevant ideas, again mostly by
way of review.

### Evaluating an Expression, e, over an Interpretation, i

When we say we're "evaluating an expression over an interpretation,"
we remember to view interpretation as representations of particular
"worlds" within which the expression can be evaluated. Evaluating an
expression, e, over an interpretation, i, or in world i, can now be
seen as applying *(eval e)* to i to produce a Boolean indicating
whether i satisfies e or not.

### Checking Whether Given World, i, Has Property Spceified by e

Next we came to see *e* as a specification of a *property* that any
given world might or might not have. One example would be the property
of having at least one happy pet. If this property is specified in
propositional logic by the expression,  e := HappyCat \/ HappyDog,
then we have four worlds to consider: no happy pet, only dog happy,
only cat happy, and both pets happy. Only three of these four worlds
has the property specified by e.

### i Satisfies e; i is Model for e; [[e]]i is true; i Has Propery e

We know that *(eval e i)*, or [[e]]i, reduces to the semantic value
of *e* over *i*. We can also express this idea by saying that *i*
satisfies the predicate, *e*; that i is a model for e; that [[e]]i
is true, or that *i* has has the property (specified by) *e*. They
all mean the same thing while emphasizing different views of it all.

### ⟦e⟧ is a Function that Checks Worlds for Properties

Finally, let's consider the expression *(eval e)*, or [[e]]. We
know that *eval* takes an expression and an interpretation. What
you will also is that *(eval e)* reduces to a function: it's one
that is like *eval* but with *e* already "baked in," and that is
ready to be applied to an *i* to produce a final Boolean answer.
We can thus now see [[e]] as a function that that can use to check
whether a given world or situation has the property specified by
*e* or not. We now have the concept of *property checking.*

### Propositions are Used to Represent Other Things, Too

Thinking of expressions as specifying properties of possible words
is not always what you want to do. Soon enough we'll see that we
will want to view some propositions as formally specifying valid
patterns of logical thinking. Check out the propositions listed in
the examples file in Chapter 1. Most of them seem reasonable but
you'll have to think through some of them, and just a few are not
valid: they don't work in all circumstances.

## Finalize Workflow Setup

Here are the steps for this first task.

### Create MyWork Directory

Create a folder called MyWork within the code/DMT1 folder. If you
put it anywhere else, things will break, so put it there. Note: git
is configured (by the .gitignore file) to ignore this folder. You
should not change any files within the code directory *except* for
the ones you put in here. You should do all of your work in this
directory. These rules if followed will avoid you running into git
merge conflicts should you try to pull my updates over your changes.

### Pull My Latest Updates

In a terminal, run the following command to pull the latest updates
from my GitHub repo to your laptop cloned of your fork of my repo.

```sh
git pull upstream main
```

If git complains that there's not repo called upstream, run the
following to define it, then rerun the pull command.

```sh
git remote add upstream https://github.com/kevinsullivan/dmtl4
```

### Copy the File to MyWork

Upon executing a successful pull, a new DMT1/hw directory will
appear. It will contain a subfolder, hw3, which holds  the files
needed to do this homework. The files in this case are changed
from those in the Lectures only in namespsace names and import
paths. They form a separate working system for you to work on.

Please note: The files will not build in their current location.
You will probably see red file names and red underlines if you
open the files. You may ignore these errors here.

Now copy the entire DMT1/hw/hw3 folder into MyWork. You can use
copy/paste keyboard shortcuts on the folder names in the VSCode
project browser. One the folder is directly under the MyWork
directory, then the import paths will be correct and the files
should no longer have errors.

If when you vist the Lean files you see red underlines at the
tops of the .lean files, you might need to re-run Lean on those
files. Use CMD/CTRL-SHIFT-P and select the "Lean: Restart File"
command. You can also run *lake build* in your terminal window,
then revisit the .lean file and possibly again run Restart File.

You may open the test.lean file and check the results reported
by the #eval Lean commands on the last two lines of the file.
You should get answers and they should be correct, which you
should verify by reading the preceding definitions.

## Reading

Be sure to have read and studied the following materials before
this assignment is due. I'll ask you to say as much when you send
in your other files.

### TPiL4

- Theorem Proving in Lean 4, Chapter 6, Interacting with Lean, skipping over these parts:
  - Attributes
  - More on Implicit Arguments'
  - Coercions
  - Setting Options
  - Autobound Implicit Arguments
  - Implicit Lambdas

I'm not going to try to teach every detail of Lean that you will benefit from
in lecture, but will depend on you to read this material, hoping that when you
run into a question, you'll at remember that you read about it, and will have a
good idea where to look.

### Our Class Notes

Be sure you've read all of the class notes I've posted. You can refer to them
online, but it'd be much better to open the corresponding files in VSCode and
use Lean 4 to help you work through what it means.

## Main: Extend Specification of Semantics for New Syntax

Your assignment now is in just a few parts.

- First, incorporate the extensions you made to the syntax.lean on the last homework into the one in this directory
- Second, extend the definition of the semantics of propositional logic to account for those new operators
- Extend the test.lean file to show test cases where you apply *eval* to propositions using your new operators, and to interpretations you will define
- When you're done, upload your semantics.lean, domain.lean, and test.lean files, to the Canvas submission site. Add a brief comment if circumstances led to your submission not being complete, otherwise "all good" is fine.
- NEW: 
